So in the last lecture we generated this POT file. Let's in this lecture see how to provide actual translations to your
theme.
So let's install a software.
It's called Poedit.
And this will help us generate translation files the PO and MO files. And it can also generate the
POT files actually but to us it made more sense to generate it with gulp,
right?
So I have this program installed. So I'm gonna open it.
So when you create a translation depending on the language, you should call your files, your PO and
MO files by one of these local codes.
So if you're gonna have a German translation, you go here in German and then call your file this ".mo"
and ".po". So I'll put a link to this list. But let's now create a new translation with Poedit. And then let's navigate to
our POT file.
So our theme and then languages and "pot".
And let's do a German translation.
So. And let's translate one of our strings.
So we have, let's say "Read More".
So let's find the "Read More" here.
So here it is.
And what's great about this program also that you get some suggestions here.
So let's choose one of these.
So here we've have the original and the translation. And let's save.
And it also automatically call it the right locale here.
So let's see it in languages. And let's click save.
And let's go now to our folder.
And as you can see we PO files.
So search for "read more".
And as you can see we have the original and the translation. And the MO file will not be a human readable file but
it's actually important to have it, right?
So now we need to switch our WordPress websites to German. So to do that we can go to the wp-config file.
And we still don't have the translation and that's because you still have to do something our theme. So let's
go back to our theme. And let's go to functions.php. And what we have to do is you have to load
our translations. And to do that we can use an action which is "after_theme_setup" or "after_setup_theme" sorry.
And let's give it a function. Let's call it "load_textdomain". And let's create this function. And to load our
translations we can simply call a function called load_theme_textdomain(). So this takes our text domain which
is of course "_themename" and it takes a path to the translations folder, which is the languages folder.
Right?
So let's use get_template_directory() and then the "/languages".
So let's now save and let's refresh.
So it's still not working.
And I realized that this method of choosing the language is no more supported.
So let's remove this. And to change the language
now you should go to the Settings, the  General Settings and then you have a Site Language option.
Right?
So let's choose "Deutsche" and let's save. And this might take some time.
And now our website is in German.
Let's go to the actual website and refresh.
And as you can see we have our translation.
One more thing I want to point out.
Remember when we wrote some comments for translators. So in the helpers file for instance, we had for example
the "By".
And then we said the "s" is "Post Author".
So if you go to Poedit now and go to "By", you will find a note here. And "%s : Post Author".
So this could be very useful.
One final thing.
Let's say you're not as theme developer,
you're not gonna provide translations and normal users are gonna provide the translations.
So what are they gonna do?
Are they gonna just go to their translations files here?
Of course not.
Because once you update your theme anything they added here will be gone.
So you should only put translation files in your theme
if you as a theme developer are gonna provide the translation. Otherwise translations must be put in wp-content
and in languages and then you can put them here.
So we'll go to the themes directly and instead of calling the file de_DE directly
you'll just add your theme name before it. So this way
if you update your theme and your users have some translations in the languages folder, it will be safe
and it will not be removed when you update your theme.
So make sure to just mention this in your documentation for your theme that if you need to add translations, you
should put them in the wp-content/languages/themes and then name your file this way.
So I think that's it for translations.
Let's also see how to translate chield themes in the next lecture.